Issue #532: Implement get_path helper API (#559)
plone/plone.api: docs/content.md

%
% self.assertEqual(view.__name__, u'plone')

(content-get-path-example)=

## Get content path

> To get the path of a content object, use {meth}`api.content.get_path`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get the path of a content object, use {func}`api.content.get_path`.
```
I think this should be `func`, check also the other occurrences.

> This method returns either an absolute path from the Zope root or a relative path from the portal root.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This function accepts an object for which you want to get its path as the required parameter `obj`, and an optional boolean parameter `relative` whose default is `False`.
It returns either an absolute path from the Zope root when `relative` is set to `True`, or a relative path from the portal root by default or when `relative` is set to `False`.
```

> The following example shows how to get the absolute path from the Zope root

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to get the absolute path from the Zope root.
```

```python
from plone import api
portal = api.portal.get()

folder = portal['events']['training']
path = api.content.get_path(obj=folder)
assert path == '/plone/events/training'
```

The following example shows how to get the portal-relative path.

```python
rel_path = api.content.get_path(obj=folder, relative=True)
assert rel_path == 'events/training'
```

> If the API is used to fetch an object outside the portal with the {meth}`relative` parameter set as `True`, it throws a `InvalidParameterError`.

Reviewer: Using `meth` for `relative` looks wrong. @stevepiercy, what should we use here?

Reviewer 2: It's a parameter of the method, not a method itself. Also this restructured sentence is more clear.

```suggestion
If the API is used to fetch an object with the `relative` parameter set as `True`, and  the object is outside the portal, it throws an `InvalidParameterError` error.
```

% invisible-code-block: python
%
% # Setup an object outside portal for testing error case
% app = portal.aq_parent
% app.manage_addFolder('outside_folder')
%
% # Test that getting relative path for object outside portal raises error
% from plone.api.exc import InvalidParameterError
% with self.assertRaises(InvalidParameterError):
%     api.content.get_path(obj=app.outside_folder, relative=True)

```python
from plone.api.exc import InvalidParameterError

# Getting path of an object outside portal raises InvalidParameterError
try:
    outside_path = api.content.get_path(
        obj=app.outside_folder,
        relative=True
    )

>     assert False, "Should raise InvalidParameterError & not reach this code"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    assert False, "Should raise InvalidParameterError and not reach this code"
```

%
% self.assertEqual(view.__name__, u'plone')

(content-get-path-example)=

## Get content path

To get the path of a content object, use {func}`api.content.get_path`.
This function accepts an object for which you want to get its path as the required parameter `obj`, and an optional boolean parameter `relative` whose default is `False`.

> It returns either an absolute path from the Zope root when `relative` is set to `True`, or a relative path from the portal root by default or when `relative` is set to `False`.

Reviewer 3: The suggested edit got the values of `relative` the wrong way round.

```suggestion
It returns either an absolute path from the Zope root by default or when `relative` is set to `False`, or a relative path from the portal root when `relative` is set to `True`.
```

%
% self.assertEqual(view.__name__, u'plone')

(content-get-path-example)=

## Get content path

> To get the path of a content object, use {meth}`api.content.get_path`. This method returns either an absolute path from the Zope root or a relative path from the portal root.

Reviewer 2: Please use one sentence per line for narrative documentation.

```suggestion
To get the path of a content object, use {meth}`api.content.get_path`.
This method returns either an absolute path from the Zope root or a relative path from the portal root.
```

> To get absolute path from the Zope root.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to get the absolute path from the Zope root.
```

```python
from plone import api
portal = api.portal.get()

folder = portal['events']['training']
path = api.content.get_path(obj=folder)
assert path == '/plone/events/training'
```

> To get portal-relative path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following example shows how to get the portal-relative path.
```

```python
rel_path = api.content.get_path(obj=folder, relative_to_portal=True)
assert rel_path == '/events/training'
```

> If the API is used to fetch an object outside portal, with {meth}`relative_to_portal` parameter as `True`, it throws a `InvalidParameterError`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the API is used to fetch an object outside the portal with the {meth}`relative_to_portal` parameter set as `True`, it throws an `InvalidParameterError`.
```
